whether the honeybees like it or not
nature has made them into real hard
workers
every single hive is like a big busy
corporation
where every single bee has a special
role to play
some of them gather pollen and nectar
others make honey and maintain the
temperature of the hive
the queen bee is a little like the ceo
her main responsibility is to be the
mother for all the bees in the hive
with so much to do bees don't have
holidays or weekends
having kids is no easy task for emperor
penguins
the female penguin first lays a single
egg after a long journey
she can travel up to 50 miles to reach a
suitable place
she then hands the egg over to the male
penguin
and goes out into the sea to feed the
male keeps the egg nice and warm
in fact the caring dad incubates the egg
for around 64 days
hey it's mr mom he may even take care of
the baby in the first few days after it
hatches
until its mom arrives with some food
it's then the male's turn to go feed for
a few weeks in the sea
the two penguins will keep on swapping
between child care and foraging for food
until the chick becomes independent
earthworms spend their entire lives
making tunnels in the soil
farmers should really thank these busy
guys for their underground activities
because the tunnels the earthworms build
help to enrich the soil with
air and water the worms also help the
plants
providing them with minerals in the form
of nutrients from the soil
so these simple creatures are really
doing an important
job but it sure is hard work for the
earthworms themselves
can you dig it some might say that
termites are a homeowner's worst
nightmare
but these demolition experts are really
useful in the wild
the insects can eat through old wood and
turn it into rich soil
inside their enormous colonies the
termites are divided into groups
with each one performing its own special
job
as with bees the termite queen gives
birth to the offspring for the entire
colony
but the worker termites are perhaps the
busiest
they collect food care for offspring and
build up the nest
they're the only kind of termite able to
turn cellulose into food
which is why they feed all the other
termites
hey say hello to the doctor of the sea
cleaner rossi fish are quite small but
they do a
huge amount of work they remove harmful
parasites
from other sea creatures including both
fish and reefs
the cleaner rossi even get rid of the
parasites on really large fish
which is actually a brave thing to do
because the big creatures are a real
danger to them
luckily for the cleaner rossies though
the predators value their medical
services
more than their taste i don't eat me
please don't eat me
hey thanks cleaner rossies work
tirelessly at their task day and night
and they do a really good job studies
show that the reefs become much
healthier after they've been cleaned
the diversity of fish is also greater in
areas inhabited by cleaner rossis
of course they're not doing all of this
out of generosity
the parasites are food for the rossis so
doing their job is
basically the same thing as visiting a
restaurant
that sounds like a win-win situation
male bower birds have a unique talent
they design
their own nests okay all birds build
nests
but only bower birds decorate them with
flowers shells and colorful pebbles
all this beauty isn't just for their own
enjoyment though
male bower birds use their design skills
to attract females to their
luxurious homes hey babe wanna check out
my pad
the birds also perform a courtship dance
since competition is steep
bower birds really do their best to
impress a potential partner
so that's what bowerbird bling
though lions are often called the king
of the jungle
it's actually the lionesses who do all
the real work
while the male's job is to protect their
families the females are busy both
raising the young
and getting food for all the members of
the pride
and this truly is hard work the average
male line needs around 15 pounds of meat
a day
so the females do the majority of the
hunting
although they're actually smaller and
less powerful than the males
but lionesses have one particular
advantage here
they can run about 30 percent faster
than lions and that's where we draw the
lion
[Music]
here are nature's engineers beavers
these long tooth mammals are very
serious about their homes
first the beavers build dams special
barriers to protect them from predators
the dams are usually made of mud stone
and timber
the beavers gnaw a tree at its trunk
then break the wood down
into smaller pieces and carry it between
their teeth
they're prepared to repeat the job if
necessary if their dam gets destroyed
beavers can rebuild it overnight when
all is ready
the eager beavers start to build their
homes which are called
lodges these are really sophisticated
buildings with vents
underwater entrances and a feeding
chamber where they stock wood to eat
during the winter
well now i understand why they say busy
as a beaver
ants have a reputation for being the
most hardworking creatures in the world
their strict social organization and
division of labor
makes them incredibly successful when
they work together
ants live almost everywhere on earth
except for antarctica
and a few remote islands the numbers
speak for themselves
ants could make up for as much as 15 to
25 percent
of all living things on dry land
but despite just how busy ant colonies
seem to be
some of the little critters actually do
take a break now and then
scientists once observed the behavior of
several hundred ants from five different
colonies
the results show that around 40 percent
were busy
doing nothing they divided the ants into
four groups
walkers individuals that spend most of
the time
wandering around the ant hill foragers
those who perform tasks outside the nest
nurses
who specialize in caring for the young
and finally the inactive
lazy individuals
ants are real experts at being lazy but
the most amazing thing about these
slackers
is that they're actually doing the right
thing they're a reserve
labor force if the ant colony loses its
active workers
it can replace them with the inactive
guys right away
[Music]
so it seems we can hardly call ourselves
the most hardworking species on earth
in fact as if they didn't have enough to
do there are plenty of animals that can
help us perform
our jobs better therapy dogs provide
some much needed affection to people
in hospitals and nursing homes they can
also help patients or elderly people
to participate in physical activity and
even educate children
any size or breed of dog can become a
therapy dog
but they should have the right
temperament and good socializing skills
detection dogs or sniffer dogs have been
around since the middle ages
nowadays their primary role is to detect
dangerous odors
illegal currency and electronic devices
detection dogs can also help biologists
because
they can be trained to discover certain
animal species in the wild
sniffer dogs are also employed in the
medical industry
they can detect specific odors
associated with certain medical
conditions
in the future it might be possible to
train dogs to work out if someone has a
fever
but dogs aren't the only animals that
help us in our work
elephants are another example indian
elephants are still
widely used for various jobs especially
in the jungle
these animals are capable of carrying
heavy loads up to 20
000 pounds which is the weight of 130
adult human beings
elephants can carry heavy tree trunks
and perform complex tasks
like stacking logs in a certain order
loading and unloading barges
and pulling trees out of deep water
these incredible animals can learn over
30 commands but if you now think all
animals are more productive than us
don't worry there are plenty more that
prefer to lie around
not doing anything at all koalas are one
of the laziest species on the planet
they spend most of their lives hanging
onto the crowns of eucalyptus trees
koalas can actually run and even swim
but
normally they move only when necessary
sleeping for up to 20 hours a day in the
rare moments when koalas are awake
they simply sit motionless clutching a
branch with their paws
it's their diet that makes them such
lazy bones
the leaves of eucalyptus trees are not
the most high calorie food out there
hmm maybe they should be drinking koala
cola or something